Point of sale

You can use Shopify POS to sell your products in person in retail stores, popups, and other locations.
Whether you're setting up your first Shopify store or expanding your online store to start selling in person you can use the Getting Started section for a complete guide to setting up the Shopify POS app, including choosing the subscription that best meets your needs, and the Hardware overview to learn about Shopify hardware for retail selling.

Shopify POS
Shopify POS is a point of sale app that you can use to sell your products in person. You can use Shopify POS to sell almost anywhere, including brick-and-mortar stores, markets, and pop-up shops. The Shopify POS app is available for only iOS and Android devices.

Shopify POS syncs with Shopify to track your orders and inventory across your retail locations, online store, and other active sales channels. You can even view and manage your store's orders from the app.

Hardware
You can connect Shopify with a range of retail hardware that helps you build your business, both in person and online. If you are a merchant with a store located in a supported country, then you can buy supported hardware directly from Shopify.

To find out more about the best hardware to meet your store's needs, refer to the Hardware section.

Managing Shopify POS
After you've set up your store and purchased your hardware, you're ready to start selling with Shopify POS.

To find out more about how to manage your store's retail experience, refer to the Selling in person section.

Selling in Person
You can use the basic features of the Shopify POS app to sell almost anywhere, including brick and mortar stores, markets, and pop-up shops. Use Shopify POS to create a cart for each customer. You can also modify the cart, for example, by adding or removing products or applying a discount. When the cart is ready, you can accept payment with a range of payment methods.
Shopify POS syncs with your Shopify admin to track orders and inventory across your retail locations, online store, and other active sales channels. You can view and manage your store's orders from the Shopify POS app.